# Projects

This page contains summaries of projects I designed and built
over the years. Click any of the headings to be re-directed to
a youtube video I made for the project.

## [2019 - Nut Sorter 9000](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T9pjuGumkJ0)

![IMAGE ALT TEXT](http://img.youtube.com/vi/T9pjuGumkJ0/0.jpg)

In my fourth year mechatronics course my team and I were tasked with making a
nut sorting machine.
The machine had to follow a set of constraints: it had to sort 12 nuts (of
type small brass, small steel, big brass, big nylon), four coins, and use
only the sensors and components provided in class. This project on test day
was timed by hand to achieve 15.59 seconds for the sort, and in other tests
it could achieve times a bit over 14 seconds. This time is close to the limit
set by the servo’s ability to rotate to the cuts quickly, and human loading
speed. The design used three sensors: a hall effect sensor, continuity
detector, and a limit switch. The code for the project is found on my Github
[here](https://github.com/cboin1996/NutSorter).

## [2017 - Weed Removal Mechanism](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=chmXV6llftY)

![IMAGE ALT TEXT](http://img.youtube.com/vi/chmXV6llftY/0.jpg)

In my third year at the University of Guelph my team and I were tasked with
designing a machine related to the agriculture industry. This project
combined the skills of five engineering students working in a team to conduct
an engineering design process utilizing the theory learned in class thus far
in the degree along with programming and CAD design to produce this weeding
machine.

## [2017 - Sewing Machine Animation](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3MW0eu_eavE)

![IMAGE ALT TEXT](http://img.youtube.com/vi/3MW0eu_eavE/0.jpg)

In my second year I worked in a team to design and animate a sewing machine
using SOLIDWORKS. I apologize for the flickering Kenmore Label, the codec had
trouble with it. This project gave me and my teammates a thorough
understanding of SOLIDWORKS modelling techniques and the skills learned were
put towards future projects.

## [2017 - W.A.H.M](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_G7ONjICCqU)

![IMAGE ALT TEXT](http://img.youtube.com/vi/_G7ONjICCqU/0.jpg)

In the same year, and with the same team as the sewing machine project we
worked to design a mechanism that could be disassembled into a kinder egg. We
chose to design a StrandBeest — based off of Theo Jansen’s larger scale
designs. The W.A.H.M (Walking Autonomous Humanoid Mechanism) was first
designed using popsicle sticks and glue, and then with SOLIDWORKS in order to
be 3D printed.

## [2015 - Mechanno Robot Car](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mPNv2hlV5cE)

![IMAGE ALT TEXT](http://img.youtube.com/vi/mPNv2hlV5cE/0.jpg)

In my first year at the University of Guelph, I worked with a team to design
a Mechanno car that could carry a teddy bear across a series of hurdles and
perform a shooting task into a hoop. This design project was an amazing
experience for me and my team, and an excellent starting project in my degree
as it introduced me to working with circuits and an Arduino.
